README.md, before:

# 🚀 HostPilot by Jp

**HostPilot** is a premium, high-performance hosts file manager for Linux and macOS. It provides a beautiful, modern UI to manage your `/etc/hosts` entries with ease, supporting project tagging, search, and automated backups.

![HostPilot Dashboard](assets/screenshots/hostpilot_logo_verification_1770354390065.png)

## ✨ Features

- 🎨 **Premium UI**: Modern dark theme with glassmorphism and smooth animations.
- 🐧🍎 **Cross-Platform**: Native support for Ubuntu (via `pkexec`) and macOS (via `osascript`).
- 📁 **Project Management**: Group your host entries with tags for better organization.
- 🔍 **Real-time Search**: Instantly find entries by IP, domain, or comment.
- 🛡️ **Safe Operations**: Automatic backups are created before every save.
- ⚡ **Compact View**: Highly efficient single-row layout for power users.

## 🚀 User Flow

1. **Launch App**: Open HostPilot and see your current hosts file parsed into a clean list.
2. **Add Host**: Click the `+ Add Host` button (or press `Ctrl+N`) to open the centered modal and add a new entry.
3. **Organize**: Assign project tags to group related hosts together.
4. **Toggle/Edit**: Use the interactive toggles to enable/disable entries without deleting them.
5. **Save Changes**: Click the Save button. You'll be prompted for your system password to securely update `/etc/hosts`.

## 🛠️ Development Setup

If you want to run the project from source:

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18 or higher)
- npm

### Installation
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd hostpilot

# Install dependencies
npm install
```

### Running Locally
```bash
# Start development server with Electron
npm run electron:dev

# Start web development server only
npm run dev
```

## 📦 Building for Production

### To build the app for your current platform:
```bash
npm run electron:build
```

### Downloadable Versions
The following installers have been generated in the `dist-electron` folder:
- **Ubuntu/Linux**:
  - [hostpilot_0.1.0_amd64.deb](dist-electron/hostpilot_0.1.0_amd64.deb) (Native Installer)
  - [HostPilot by Jp-0.1.0.AppImage](dist-electron/HostPilot%20by%20Jp-0.1.0.AppImage) (Portable)
- **macOS**:
  - To build the `.dmg` or `.zip` for macOS, please run `npm run electron:build -- --mac` on a macOS machine or via a CI/CD service like GitHub Actions. (Building DMGs on Linux requires specific system-level dependencies).

We support:
- **Ubuntu/Linux**: `.AppImage` and `.deb`
- **macOS**: `.dmg` and `.zip`

## ⚙️ Usage after Download

Once you've downloaded the executable (e.g., the `.AppImage` on Linux), follow these steps:

### Ubuntu/Linux
1. Right-click the `.AppImage` file and select **Properties**.
2. Go to the **Permissions** tab and check **Allow executing file as program**.
3. Double-click to launch.

### macOS
1. Open the `.dmg` file and drag **HostPilot** to your Applications folder.
2. If you see a "Developer cannot be verified" warning, go to **System Settings > Privacy & Security** and click **Open Anyway**.

---
*Created by Jp*

Commit message:

Finalize branding and documentation for HostPilot by Jp

README.md, after:

# 🚀 HostPilot by Jp

**HostPilot** is a premium, high-performance hosts file manager for Linux and macOS. It provides a beautiful, modern UI to manage your `/etc/hosts` entries with ease, supporting project tagging, search, and automated backups.

![HostPilot Dashboard](assets/screenshots/hostpilot_logo_verification_1770354390065.png)

## ✨ Features

- 🎨 **Premium UI**: Modern dark theme with glassmorphism and smooth animations.
- 🐧🍎 **Cross-Platform**: Native support for Ubuntu (via `pkexec`) and macOS (via `osascript`).
- 📁 **Project Management**: Group your host entries with tags for better organization.
- 🔍 **Real-time Search**: Instantly find entries by IP, domain, or comment.
- 🛡️ **Safe Operations**: Automatic backups are created before every save.
- ⚡ **Compact View**: Highly efficient single-row layout for power users.

## 🚀 User Flow

1. **Launch App**: Open HostPilot and see your current hosts file parsed into a clean list.
2. **Add Host**: Click the `+ Add Host` button (or press `Ctrl+N`) to open the centered modal and add a new entry.
3. **Organize**: Assign project tags to group related hosts together.
4. **Toggle/Edit**: Use the interactive toggles to enable/disable entries without deleting them.
5. **Save Changes**: Click the Save button. You'll be prompted for your system password to securely update `/etc/hosts`.

## 🛠️ Development Setup

If you want to run the project from source:

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18 or higher)
- npm

### Quick Install (Ubuntu/Linux)
Open your terminal and run:
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jaydeep-pipaliya/hostpilot/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Manual Installation
1. **Clone the repository** (if you want to build from source):
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jaydeep-pipaliya/hostpilot.git
cd hostpilot
npm install
```

### Running Locally
```bash
# Start development server with Electron
npm run electron:dev

# Start web development server only
npm run dev
```

## 📦 Building for Production

### To build the app for your current platform:
```bash
npm run electron:build
```

### Downloadable Versions
The following installers have been generated in the `dist-electron` folder:
- **Ubuntu/Linux**:
  - [hostpilot_0.1.0_amd64.deb](dist-electron/hostpilot_0.1.0_amd64.deb) (Native Installer)
  - [HostPilot by Jp-0.1.0.AppImage](dist-electron/HostPilot%20by%20Jp-0.1.0.AppImage) (Portable)
- **macOS**:
  - To build the `.dmg` or `.zip` for macOS, please run `npm run electron:build -- --mac` on a macOS machine or via a CI/CD service like GitHub Actions. (Building DMGs on Linux requires specific system-level dependencies).

We support:
- **Ubuntu/Linux**: `.AppImage` and `.deb`
- **macOS**: `.dmg` and `.zip`

## ⚙️ Usage after Download

Once you've installed **HostPilot**, you can find it in your application launcher.

### Launching the App
- **Ubuntu/Linux**: Search for "HostPilot" in the Activities/App Grid and click to open.
- **macOS**: Find "HostPilot" in your Applications folder or use Spotlight (`Cmd+Space`) to search for it.

### Commands & Post-Install
- To run from terminal (if installed via .deb):
  ```bash
  hostpilot
  ```
- **Privilege Elevation**: The first time you save a host or perform a backup, the OS will prompt you for your administrator/sudo password. This is required to securely modify the `/etc/hosts` file.

---
*Created by Jp*
